I found something very serious that will
affect you in today's video we're going
to look at a few aspects of debt that
have gone out of control I've never seen
anything like this before so we're going
to break that down into a couple things
and I want you to understand that we've
reached the point of no return we can't
reverse this you can't run the clock
back on it because of how far we've come
look at this a situation with debt as it
relates to real estate can be broken
down into subcategories we've got the
average individual they're taking out a
mortgage we've got the corporations
where they've got their big towers we've
got the retail establishments there are
so many different types of real estate
and of course each one of those has debt
associated with it some of that is going
to be long-term debt so it might be for
instance the average Suburban home where
you're going to pay that off over 30
years and it's at a fixed rate of of
interest for that entire duration but
what about the corporations when they
have a big skyscraper well they have
multiple tenants within that one
building that tenant might be some grade
a blue chip type of company or it might
be another they've got debt associated
with each of these levels of these
companies and and all these businesses
and are they able to pay that back well
there's something to that and we start
to dig in a little bit more in depth and
it seems as though they don't have a
chance in paying back and if that's the
case if they can't pay that back what
does that mean for the financial system
well I'm going to show you today that we
are encountering a time in which it
seems likely that there's going to be
some sort of event that results from the
fact that interest rates are at these
high levels and the only way out of this
is to print beyond belief
how does that sound well I'm going to
break this down and of course we need to
talk about how under these circumstances
you can not only survive but you can
Thrive and prosper that's what we all
want right let me show you
first thing that I need to discuss here
is related to the 30-year fixed mortgage
rate of course in the United States this
is up over seven percent you have
Manhattan's median rent remaining at a
record high of 4 400 a month the prices
on mortgages are up you look at the
rents are up this is for most major
cities around the world all experiencing
this at the exact same time you see the
mortgage applications obviously they're
down because of these factors and it
doesn't help people that they you know
can choose to rent right now because the
rents are extremely expensive you have
the monthly mortgage payment going up
doubling on average I mean just think
about the the average payment somebody's
gonna make is double what it was a
couple years ago I know when you go to
the grocery store when you pay your
energy bills everything all the services
used everything seems to be up
significantly maybe not double in some
cases but in some cases certainly that
it actually is the case where you're
paying twice as much as you did before
this leaves less disposable income
remember behind every expense there is
always going to be debt that associated
with this on the deeper level where does
all of this so-called money come from it
Springs out of the bank's balance sheets
created out of nothing like a mushroom
and that then of course has basically
this this idea that we can create
something out of nothing and then
somebody else is going to pay that back
it is completely wild and ridiculous and
I
struggle with the concept myself of
something out of nothing that needs to
be paid back and how do you pay that
back well it comes out of nothing it's
it's this inevitable cycle that we run
into here that obviously has problems
over over a longer period of time Redfin
reports home purchases fell through at
the highest rate at near in nearly a
year of course you can see this right
now come in at a time in which people
cannot afford the payments of course
but we are only getting started this is
the debt circumstance that so many
companies are dealing with so many
individuals are dealing with it goes a
level deeper
I want you to know that households and
the corporations have basically got into
these dangerous territories and they
can't get back from it we can't climb
out of it
you can guess if you're interested which
company
is affected by Massive defaults right
now big big company dealing with some
big defaults can you guess we'll talk
about that in a second
and is Canada the biggest bubble of all
time
well we'll look at that as well you got
to understand that there's so many
different elements to this and when we
talk about real estate we are just
really looking at one piece of a very
big puzzle well you're a truth Seeker
that's why you're here you want to know
what this is all about
so let's look
90 of companies say that they'll return
to the office by the end of 2024 but
five-day commute is dead and that's
largely for a lot of companies yes
they're gonna have to come back I don't
know about this end of 2024. a lot of
businesses I've already said you're
coming back to the office come back
right now and if not you're fired and so
a lot of people did that some are
fighting it we'll see what happens over
time depends on the industry and of
course but the whole you know down
people traveling from let's say the
suburbs into the downtown core five days
a week that's likely not going to happen
there's this back and forth there's a
lot of leniency oh I need to go to the
doctor's office today so I'll work from
home these things have become more
typical where there's a lot of leniency
to work from home at this time what does
that mean less commercial real estate is
needed period end of story less
commercial real estate but you've got a
lot of commercial real estate you've got
a lot of retail you got a lot of office
and I think it's important right now to
understand that there's a lot of debt
Associated hang on
so what did you guess for the companies
exposed to defaults well let me show you
Blackstone
Blackstone in uh Brookfield are on the
top of that list
yes they have not been able to pay back
their debt on some of their properties
simple matter of fact where are the
locations
Manhattan
in one case here Finland Las Vegas Los
Angeles and you go down the list okay so
many different cities but here we have
just a few examples and it goes all over
the place but office is the one that is
just terrible it is in such
Dire Straits Office Buildings are not
needed in the way that they did before
retail is going to have its own crisis
there's no question about that it
already is in some cases but we've got
different aspects to this you've got the
banks dealing with it but you've also
got the commercial mortgage-backed
Securities remember back during the
financial crisis housing crisis we were
hearing about these asset-backed
Securities toxic assets they threw these
names around there and so the Federal
Reserve said the solution to this crisis
is number one we're going to take Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac we're going to take
them onto the backs of the taxpayers uh
we'll handle that but also we're going
to buy the mortgage-backed Securities
which were called at the time toxic
assets we'll buy these things and that
will stabilize the market because we're
the lender of last resort we're going to
buy that all up and so they kept doing
it year after year after year and at
that time that was seen as the temporary
solution now we know it's just permanent
forever
so we have this issue with commercial
mortgage-backed Securities which is
essentially the same type of thing it's
a derivative of the debt associated with
these properties
and so what happens when you have tenant
after tenant after tenant
either completely you know not being
able to pay their bills
um they're basically going bankrupt who
knows what the circumstance is but one
after the other after the other can't
deal with it okay then you have a crisis
and then that starts to unfold and you
have problems at the lender but who's
lending that money
I'm gonna show you
can you guess
is it the big Banks or is it the
regional Banks uh-oh
can you hear svb ringing a bell
check this out
Banks hold approximately 40 percent of
4.5 trillion dollars of outstanding
commercial and multi-family mortgages in
the US Office Accounts for approximately
20 percent of the 4.5 trillion okay
I think multi-family I'm not saying it
doesn't have problems of course they
can't pay their debt they got an issue
but in general multi-family will fare
better most likely than office and
Retail that's what I would say and it's
stick to that
for the office segment within U.S banks
regional and local banks account for 62
percent of lending while National Banks
comprise the remaining 38 so what does
that mean it means the regional Banks
the smaller banks are the ones doing the
most lending to office
and so we had a problem remember with
these Regional Banks back in March of
2023 you had one after the other after
the other but also big Banks too look at
Credit Suisse dealing with their own
issues this is all because of the rise
in interest rates throwing off their
whole mess when they thought inflation
would be transitory
so that's what we're dealing with right
now this is a crisis and unless
something changes this is inevitable but
you can see that commercial real estate
debt maturities you've got 2.5 trillion
dollars maturing in the next five years
the way it works of course as I talked
about at the beginning
you've got 30-year debt on your like
your average real estate in the suburbs
okay that guy's paying his bill he's
gonna pay it over 30 years but in the
commercial real estate side it's shorter
term okay and then that has to be then
it matures you've got to then repay that
okay or refinance that and so this is
how it works in fact in Australia it
works the same in Canada Works in
different places in the U.S the
residential you could stretch that out
for 30 years at one interest rate works
very well us has a very big advantage in
that case and so with this here you
understand when it comes due it's coming
due at a much higher level of interest
that puts even a further burden on this
so in that next year I believe I have it
right here yes you could see that there
is a 1.1 trillion dollars of debt
maturing in 2023 and 2020 four so
there's a lot coming due right now as we
speak into next year
trillions of dollars worth here
connected in at a higher interest rate
simple matter of fact so the problem as
we move into next year gets much worse
much worse off this comprises 23 percent
of debt maturities in 2023 and 2024 okay
so we know that there are trillions of
dollars here we've got a big concern
that we're dealing with and that the
math is looking real bad real bad all
right Canada likely sitting on the
largest housing bubble of all time
incredible I've said this before and I I
do agree with it but here we go I
wouldn't necessarily say that it's
imminent I would say it's pretty
inevitable okay
what do we have in Canada just the debt
to income ratio is just way too far it's
gone way too far house prices to
relative income argues that those
looking for a big headline about a
housing bubble should be keeping an eye
on the disparity between house prices
and incomes this is what I talked about
in my book which I published back in
2012. the problem has become I would say
at least five times worse since then all
right we've gone over a decade and you
know had we had a chance back in 2012 we
had a chance to restore order to bring
things back into circumstance where
people wouldn't have been hurt but now
today at these prices it's going to
slaughter people it's going to be
devastating and the problem here is not
that if house prices collapsed by 50
people are not going to get hurt by that
yeah they'll be underwater I get it but
you can you know you keep going and
eventually you'll be okay as long as
your income is coming in it depends why
the house is price crashed
it's the inflation oh we've got a big
problem now we got to print money now we
gotta cut interest rates and those
prices will soar
sore
it will be very devastating and damaging
to everyone that is the worst case
scenario
decades low interest rates seduced a lot
of home buyers and has led to excessive
leverage backing up the whole system yes
there's no question about it and I just
wanted to finish off with this Aryan
warns of a massive corporate refinancing
next year Economist says high yield and
commercial real estate is at risk of a
refinancing shock this is coming
everywhere hope you see what I'm trying
to get at in today's video I want to
highlight the fact that you just don't
sit there and take it you've got to
survive number one but more importantly
as we look at this you've got to thrive
and prosper and that's what this channel
is all about you want the truth
so that you can Thrive and prosper all
right first things first reduce your
leverage any way that you can reduce
your leverage do whatever you've got to
do I know some people that will take on
they've got too much credit card debt so
what they can do is they can get one of
those Balance transfers they can get a
credit card that for the next 18 months
they're not going to pay that pay any
debt on okay so they've got 18 months to
clear that up yes they got to pay the
transfer fees and all that yes but at
least they're not going to pay 22
interest
on their whole thing month after month
after month the balance transfer they
can do this they can make this happen
they can do debt consolidation they
could actually talk to the you know
where they've got this creditors and get
that to be wiped off potentially there
are circumstances okay reduce your
leverage any way you can at the same
time when you talk about
um buying what you can manage sell what
you don't need okay and that's what it's
all about you know when you look at this
in terms of assets when you look at
um just things that you have right now
is that time where you will accumulate
what you can because maybe you think
that the prices will go higher as a
result but at the same time if you have
things around that you just don't need
sell I know a lot of people did make the
smart decision back in 2020 to sell
their second vehicle because they said
look I'm going to be working from home
my wife is working from home I got the
kids doing the so-called School online
at home all right you know what I don't
need that second car so they sold the
second car that was a good thing at that
time because they were able to then
reduce their costs whatever it is stop
around your house you've got stuff that
you can sell that might make hundreds or
thousands of dollars please think about
that okay it's important okay at the
same time big companies can be hit they
can take damage or they can go bankrupt
and that's why we need to diversify this
goes for Investments your stock
Investments but it also happens to be uh
related to you know just about anything
the companies that you're working for
don't think they're bulletproof that's
what I'm saying so you got to diversify
where you can I wanted to highlight the
fact that everybody on Discord now has
access to Compass so check out Compass
let me know what you think okay I've got
very little feedback so far even though
well there's a couple hundred people
that have gone into Compass I want to
know what you think okay so you can get
in there right now simply by going on to
Discord the link is in the description
get over to the announce section go to
the link let me know what you think what
is about the comment of the day come on
everybody
fear the honey badger said this I like
that a massive spending Bill depending
on money printing is called the
inflation reduction bill that's right
inflation reduction act and they're
spending a lot of money yes of course
that's that's how they do this they want
you to think that they're actually
taking care of things for you when in
fact we know they're never going to you
got to take care of things for yourself
first we find out the truth and then we
can Thrive and prosper I hope you
appreciated this hit that thumbs up
button when you do that it helps out the
channel so I want to thank you for this
if you have questions you let me know
directly you can always contact me on
Discord I'm always available for you
I'll see you on the next one take care